
HSBC software development pvt ltd., pune   DOJ-26th sep 2022  Desktop support engineer.

Que 1. Introduction.
Ans : Hi Hello, my name is abhishek kanawade. I am from sangamner,maharashtra. I have completed B.E electronics from amrutvahini college of sangamner. And this is my first job i joined as 
      a fresher. I have completed 1.3 years in hsbc. and it was great experience with hsbc. I learned varios things. I worked on varios projects like lenevo service camp. M365 migration 
      activity, Dell monitor deployement activity, 405 grads onboarding activity. I learned varios things from our team and one of most important thing that is micro management. `

2. Primary work.
      1. I am doing hardware and softwares tickets. having good knowledge of troublshooting. In hardware tickets i am resolving various kinds of issue like if touchpad and keyboard and 
         not working we are updating the drivers and bios. Also looking in varios kinds of issue like power on issue, usb port not working issue charger not working issue, camera not working
         laptop overheating issue, charging port not working issue, headset issues. Also giving desk support for users for dell monitor connectivity issue.
      2. And in software tickets, looking in network and vpn connectivity issue, updating cisco any connect issue, jabber troubleshooting issue, M365 installation, zoom version update,
         Teams issue, outlook troubleshhoting sometimes meeting are are not showing in zoom in that case need to update folder, also need to turn on zoom plugin, symphony related issue.
      3. 21H2 migration- also we did 21 H2 migration activity some of the machines are not update to 22h2 so in that case we try to install.
      4. Also i did onboarding of FTE and FTC's.
      5. Did laptop checklist and laptop build process. When I have joined at that we used to install 20h2 version. but now we are selecting 22H2(v33.3.3).
        process for build. 1. press f1 for bios setting. set time and date. bluetooth, fingerprint, memorory card slot should disabled.security chip enabled,secure boot enable,virtualization enable.
                           2. press F10 for save. Then press F12 for boot. After that select image deployement mothod PXE.(pre execution)
                           3. After that select region IN. go to option and select GLT laptop.

 3. what is pxe.
ans: Preboot execution environment.
     1. PXE enables to load an operation system over network connection. it helps to deployed os from sccm to machines.
     2. It loads image on your system.
     3. PXE is faster that pendrive or CD.

5. what is proton.
Ans: 1. proton is a web- based inventory tool. which monitors the health of machines like is it off-network.
     2. we can pull report from the proton.
     3.     
         
6. what is SCCM and how packages are deployed on machines.
Ans: 1. SCCM Stands for microsoft system center configuration manager.
     2. SCCM basically database and packages are deployed from sccm to the machines. also os is deploying from machines.
     3. SCCM provides identificatin and malware protection.
     4. It manages software deployement and patch updation.

      What could be the possible reason of failing software installation of software center:
      a) Network connectivity issue from end use, the device might not able to reach SCCM DP, hence package not downloading from dp in device
         and hence causing the problem. packeg installation directory: C:\Windows\CCMCache
      b) 
         

      Steps to resolve software installation issue if any user is raising ticket.
      a) - First repair the SCCM, Open cmd with admin and run below exe.
         - C:\Windows\CCM\ccmrepair.exe
         - It will take some time

      b) - Then run 11 policies from control panel. control panel > configuration manager > select cycle and run
         - Then open cmd with admin and run gpupdate /force command
         - after this restart the system

      c) If above options are not working check the SCCM log, use below path and check the logs from CMTrace tool.
         C:\Windows\CCM\CMTrace.exe, Also from error code you can troubleshoot the problem

      d) Also you can delete the packge which downloaded in C:\Windows\CCMCache, and retry the download application from software center.

7. Have you installed any server on your windows machine(windows server 2019) and how to use 2019 server? and what is the use ?
Ans: 

8. office 365 and office 2016  IQ and diff between 2016 and 365?
9. what is firewall types and implementation 
10.what is Microsoft types
11.microsoft license types(E1,E2,E3)
12.neworkinh question what is vlan,which vlan network you are using in organisation
13.Which 3 major tickets you handled
14.why you leaving previous organisation

15. About VDI
Ans: Tyeps: 1. Enhanced vdi - 16 GB RAM, 200GB HDD
            2. Standard vdi - 8 GB
            3. Virtual vdi- azure
            4. stateless vdi - cost is more.

  Process for requset vdi:
  1. Jira portal is using for raising vdi request. requset needs to raise prior 7 days after 7 days vdi access will get from team.

 Director: Director tool is using for assigning vdi, monitoring vdi status, montoring logs of vdi, also checking status of vdi

16. About Ad did you laste work on AD. what you are work?
Ans: 1. In previous organisation i am responsible for creating user and adding permission and access
     2. I am using windows 2016 server
     3. To create user. AD --> create user --> from tools select active directory users and computers --> got to OU(organizational unit) Ou needs to created --> 
        right click --> New --> select user --> fil the user and information, also create password --> In windows password is expires every 42 days --> 
     4. Once user created you can add other information also we can set account expiration date.
     5. 
    

17. WHat is use of DHCP

18. What is DNS Types of DNS And DNS Record.
And : 1. A (Address) Record: A record that maps a domain name to an IPv4 address.
      2. AAAA (IPv6 Address) Record: Similar to the A record but maps a domain name to an IPv6 address.
      3. CNAME (Canonical Name) Record: Maps an alias (or alternate) domain name to the canonical (primary) domain name. This is often used when multiple domain names point to the same IP address.
      4. MX (Mail Exchange) Record: Specifies the mail servers responsible for receiving email on behalf of a domain. It points to the domain names of the mail servers.
      5. PTR (Pointer) Record: Used in reverse DNS lookups to map an IP address to a domain name. PTR records are used primarily for troubleshooting and security purposes.
      6. NS (Name Server) Record: Specifies the authoritative name servers for a domain. These servers store the DNS records for the domain and are responsible for providing DNS information about the domain to other DNS servers.


